docs: local development page (#491)
slackapi/slack-cli: docs/guides/developing-locally.md

---
sidebar_label: Developing locally
slug: /tools/slack-cli/guides/developing-locally
---

# Developing locally using the Slack CLI

> The Slack CLI provides some features, and customization of said features, to streamline developing apps locally. This guide details those features.

Reviewer: 🏁 thought: IMHO it'd be great if the first section after this calls out loud that this guide is centered around the command:

```
$ slack run
```

Since adjacent pages might have details for close pattern of environment variables?

## Configuring file watching and auto-restart

The Slack CLI automatically watches your app files and restarts the server when they change. It also watches `manifest.json` and reinstalls the app when the manifest changes.

For Bolt for Python projects, the Slack CLI watches all `.py` files in the root directory.

> For Bolt for JavaScript projects, the Slack CLI watches all `.js` files in the root directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Bolt for Python projects, the Slack CLI watches all `.py` files from the root directory.

For Bolt for JavaScript projects, the Slack CLI watches all `.js` files from the root directory.
```

🔭 quibble: This recurses down I believe but I don't know if these words are better or not...

View the [hooks reference](/tools/slack-cli/reference/hooks#watch-configurations) for detailed configuration options.

### Customizing watch paths

You can override the default watch paths in `.slack/hooks.json` if so desired. 

> For example, if you're working in TypeScript you'd want to only watch the `dist` build output directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to watch for changes to JavaScript files in an `src` directory but not `scripts` use the following:
```

🧱 note: I'm hesitant to suggest TypeScript specifics because the current "\*.js" check captures the expected `dist` already without reloading on "\*.ts" changes. Instead we might suggest specific paths?

```json
{
  "config": {
    "watch": {
      "manifest": {
        "paths": ["manifest.json"]
      },
      "app": {

>         "paths": ["dist/"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "paths": ["src/"]
```

🐣 note: Following the above!

🌟 praise: It's also nice that the watch configurations are linked above for detailed reference of "filtered-regex" patterns. I agree this is perhaps more than useful at this point in writing!

      }
    }
  }
}
```

A restart _clears application state_. This is usually desired! Just be aware of this if you're testing workflows that require data to persist across multiple user interactions.

### Using a remote manifest

> By default, the Slack CLI uses your local manifest and reinstalls the app if it changes. If you've created your manifest in App Settings, however, you'll have `manifest.source` set to `remote` in `.slack/config.json` and will need to manually reinstall the app if you change the manifest. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Slack CLI uses your local manifest and reinstalls the app if it changes. If you manage your manifest in App Settings, however, you'll have `manifest.source` set to `remote` in `.slack/config.json` and will need to update the manifest manually.
```

🪵 suggestion: Unsure again if this is better wording but some nuance of updating the manifest and installing the app as separate things? Please feel free to ignore this, of course!
